docs/docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome to Jac

**One Language for AI-Native Full-Stack Development**

Jac is a programming language that extends Python with powerful capabilities for building modern AI-powered applications. Write backend logic, frontend interfaces, and AI integrations in a single unified language.

---

## Get Started

- [Quick Guide](quick-guide/index.md) - Start building in 5 minutes
- [Tutorials](tutorials/index.md) - In-depth learning paths
- [Reference](reference/language/index.md) - Complete language documentation

---

## Core Principles

1. **AI-Native** - LLMs as first-class types via Meaning Typed Programming
2. **Full-Stack in One Language** - React components alongside server code
3. **Python & JavaScript Superset** - Use `numpy`, `pandas`, `react`, `tailwind` directly
4. **Object-Spatial Programming** - Model domains as graphs with walkers
5. **Cloud-Native** - One command to production with `jac start --scale`
6. **Human + AI Readable** - Clean syntax for developers and AI models alike

---

## Quick Install

```bash
pip install jaclang[all]
```

[Get started now](quick-guide/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

Commit message:

docs: fix install command from jaclang[all] to jaseci (#4251)
## Summary

- Replace all instances of `pip install jaclang[all]` with `pip install
jaseci` since `jaclang[all]` is not a valid installation option (no
`[all]` extra is defined in jaclang's pyproject.toml)
- Add clarifying notes explaining that `jaseci` is a meta-package
bundling `jaclang`, `byllm`, `jac-client`, `jac-scale`, and `jac-super`

## Files Changed

- README.md
- docs/docs/index.md
- docs/docs/quick-guide/index.md
- docs/docs/quick-guide/install.md
- docs/docs/reference/language/foundation.md
- docs/docs/reference/plugins/index.md
- docs/docs/tutorials/ai/quickstart.md
- docs/docs/tutorials/fullstack/setup.md
- docs/docs/tutorials/index.md

## Test plan

- [x] Verify no remaining instances of `jaclang[all]` in docs
- [ ] Review documentation renders correctly

docs/docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome to Jac

**One Language for AI-Native Full-Stack Development**

Jac is a programming language that extends Python with powerful capabilities for building modern AI-powered applications. Write backend logic, frontend interfaces, and AI integrations in a single unified language.

---

## Get Started

- [Quick Guide](quick-guide/index.md) - Start building in 5 minutes
- [Tutorials](tutorials/index.md) - In-depth learning paths
- [Reference](reference/language/index.md) - Complete language documentation

---

## Core Principles

1. **AI-Native** - LLMs as first-class types via Meaning Typed Programming
2. **Full-Stack in One Language** - React components alongside server code
3. **Python & JavaScript Superset** - Use `numpy`, `pandas`, `react`, `tailwind` directly
4. **Object-Spatial Programming** - Model domains as graphs with walkers
5. **Cloud-Native** - One command to production with `jac start --scale`
6. **Human + AI Readable** - Clean syntax for developers and AI models alike

---

## Quick Install

```bash
pip install jaseci
```

This meta-package bundles the Jac language with all plugins (`byllm`, `jac-client`, `jac-scale`, `jac-super`).

[Get started now](quick-guide/index.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }
